So we have definitely covered a lot of
this, of what makes strong partnerships.
But I'll make sure to kind of
touch on a couple other things,
making sure I mentioned there's
dependencies on other teams.
In order for your team to be successful,
you're not just doing all the work
by yourself, there's no way,
there's definitely collaborations.
You have also opportunities to get input
and feedback from partners, right?
They see different things
that you may not, and
so I think this brings to the fact
that you can get new ideas,
diverse perspectives, and
ultimately you'll innovate more.
So even in that thing that bothers me
of when people created the same tool or
something like that.
It's if you bring the groups together
to think about meeting both needs,
the tool or product or
whatever you're creating ends up being
probably that much more stronger.
There's also a wider range of resources,
expertise, capabilities, and
this can show up in many ways,
where it's hiring.
We've talked about that, is like,
hey, you'd be perfect for this team.
Maybe it's leaning on that team,
is like, hey, Jim,
you have a lot of engineers that
are really great at GraphQL.
I'm just struggling,
I don't have that on my team right now.
I really, really need someone
with a lot of those expertise.
Do you have someone who has
bandwidth to help my team?
Maybe they can help pair or
get input or feedback on that,
maybe I need your team to help interview.
And so these are things where you wanna be
able to help and share those expertise.
Partners can also help,
add assistance, give advice, guidance,
I've said that many times and it's true.
So, how do we build strong partnerships?
It's an important aspect.
Trust, let's get back to that,
you want to build trust and
this can come in many ways.
It could even just be spending some social
time together, getting to know each other,
how do you operate,
maybe it's reading their team charter,
having them read your team charter.
Getting to really understand each
other from that perspective and
what are the goals that you're
often trying to achieve.
When I'm working with newer teams that has
been times where we've actually gone and
done something like played bocce ball
together or gone out for dinner.
Sometimes those things you don't
know if it's gonna pay off or
not, but it does, it's just hard to
know the connections that are made.
You wanna have effective communication,
you wanna have check-ins with your
partners, you wanna know how are things
going, is my team doing well for you all?
We're working on this,
what could be better?
When things aren't going well,
it's better to communicate it,
let's talk about that upfront.
If I'm gonna miss a timeline, or
my team is, I wanna communicate that,
I wanna go get ahead of that.
It's fine to miss timelines or
make mistakes, but
leaving it to the last minute
to not communicate that,
that's gonna erode trust, it's not gonna
be look good for you and your team.
Align unclear expectations, if you're
working on projects where's the divide,
who's owning what,
where's the handoff happen.
Just trying to get that clarity for
one another when you're
working together is huge.
Be adaptable, be flexible.
Things will change, you're also
partnering with a new set of people
that they might have different ideas or
different ways of doing things.
It might actually help you, you might
embrace some of those changes and
learn from them.
But it also helps you both
kind of become together and
be flexible in that manner and
ultimately collaborate better.
I think I'd mentioned this one earlier,
but yeah, understand you ultimately
have similar goals as a company,
you're probably still striving for things.
But there are gonna be individual goals
for a team, and understanding what
a team's motivation and goal is can
help you really understand that.
And then, yeah, make sure the partner
understands your goals and ask them that,
do you understand?
You could explain it, but even just making
sure they fully understand what you're
trying to achieve can go a long way.
And be open to help your partner, but
also be open to help or
ask for help where you need it.
Any other, yeah.
>> Yeah,
I guess I was kind of curious if you
have some perspective on when teams and
partner teams seem to align in goal, but
disagree on approach to solving problems.
So in our company, we have a lot of
teams that want to actively collaborate.
We've got a lot of sister teams to those
teams that want to operate autonomously.
So it can create this kind of push and
pull where one team
wants to operate autonomously and
drive in their own lane.
And dependent teams want to
pull them out of that lane and
get them collaborating more actively and
sharing more information.
It can result in a lot of confusion and
friction, so,
curious your perspective on like
how to untangle some of that.
>> Yeah, that can be a difficult one too,
and I'm sure there's not management,
not a right answer, right?
There's definitely different ways
to approach it, but I think-
>> It's a themed perfect science.
>> Yeah, but I think there's
definitely things that I would try too.
Is trying to understand if that one
team wants to be very independent and
is it looking to collaborate.
And that's what it kind of sounds like,
it's like there's others
wanting to collaborate.
It's trying to say, okay, that's fine,
let's meet in the middle,
you still need to communicate, right?
You still need to talk
through what's going on.
So should we have weekly meetings to sync
up to check in on where things are at?
Should we do joint stand-ups?
It's trying to understand and
maybe even giving suggestions or ask them,
how do we collaborate?
How can we still collaborate?
There's gonna be some form of it, right?
You may not be meeting as much,
maybe even understanding if there's
a meet-in-the-middle moment, but
also why don't they want to?
Ask that, right?
What's preventing you from collaborating?
Maybe they don't trust your team,
that could be it, right?
And if that's the case, better to know
that than to not, and then you can try and
figure out, do I need to start
to build up better trust there?
Is that something that's been broken?
So I think a lot of it is
approaching it with curiosity.
And possibly another thing is like we
often forget, maybe you're frustrated.
This team won't listen to me,
they're not collaborating, they're siloed.
And it's good to try and
take a step back and go, all right,
let's approach this with curiosity and
approach it with best intent.
And so to me, it's not probably answering
you, giving you a perfect solution, but
its ways in which I'm trying to think
about how I would approach the situation.
But you obviously need at some
point some communication or
collaboration that's happening.
>> Meghan at chat had mentioned
that another tip learn for
communication is just acknowledgment and
being responsive.
Even if it's just saying,
I'll get back to you, and
then of course following up with
what you said you're gonna do.
And as you follow it up with,
Conway's Law usually happens here.
Your software systems design ends up
following the communication patterns of
your team.
>> Yes, great point for
Meg, I like that a lot.
Yeah, definitely, that's a good point.